Sources: Python 4 Everybody, and Learning Python

Variables, expressions, and statements

Q1: Write a program that uses input to prompt a user for their name and then welcomes them.
Enter your name: Chuck
Hello Chuck

Q2: Write a program to prompt the user for hours and rate per
hour to compute gross pay.
Enter Hours: 35
Enter Rate: 2.75
Pay: 96.25
We won’t worry about making sure our pay has exactly two digits after the decimal
place for now. If you want, you can play with the built-in Python round function
to properly round the resulting pay to two decimal places.

Q3: Assume that we execute the following assignment statements:
width = 17
height = 12.0
For each of the following expressions, write the value of the expression and the
type (of the value of the expression).
1. width//2
2. width/2.0
3. height/3
4. 1 + 2 * 5
Use the Python interpreter to check your answers.

Q4: Write a program which prompts the user for a Celsius temperature, convert the temperature to Fahrenheit, and print out the converted temperature.

Q5: Write a program to find if a given number is a perfect square or not.

Q6: Write Python statements to calculate and print the simple profit using 
variables c, r and t for capital, rate of profit and time duration respectively.

Q7: Write Python statements to create 2 complex objects and print their sum, difference and product.

Q8: Write Python statements to accept a string from the user and print it in title case.


Strings

Q1: Take the following Python code that stores a string:
str = 'X-DSPAM-Confidence:0.8475'
Use find and string slicing to extract the portion of the string after the colon character and then use the float function to convert the extracted string into a floating point number.

Q2: Here is a string in python:
my_str = “Welcome to the Course on Data Science.”
Do the following:
- Split the string’
- Print only first 10 letters
- Make a new string from this, such that it has only these Words: “Welcome Science”

Q3: Write a Python script to calculate the number of occurrences of a given character in an any given string.

Q4: Write a Python script to count the number of occurrences of each word in a given string.

Q5: Write a Python script to form a string out of the first 2 and last 2 characters from the given string. For example, given the string “I am a student”, the output expected is “I nt”.


Lists

Q 1: Make a list modify it by removing the first and last elements. Then make a list called middle that contains all except the first and last elements.

Q2: Create a list of some text and find the unique words in it.

Q3: Write a program to add all the items in a list.

Q4. Write a program to get the largest and smallest number in a list.

Q5: Write a program to remove duplicates from a list.

Q6: Write a program that prints whether at least one member of the given two lists are same.

Q7: Write a program to convert a list of characters into a string.

Q8: Write a program to check whether two lists are identical.

Q9: Write a program to print unique values from a list.

Q10: Write a program to print the number of occurrences of each element in a list.

Q11: Write a program to find the sub-list in a list of lists whose sum of elements is the highest.

Q12: Write a program to insert a given string at the beginning of all the strings in a list.

Q13: Write a program to convert a string to a list of characters.

Q14: Write a program to concatenate elements of a list with corresponding
elements of another given list.

Q15: Write a program to split a list every n-th element to obtain a list of lists.

Q16: Write a program to convert a list of multiple integers into one single integer.
Thus, the list [25,12,2] should get converted to the number 25122.


Tuples

Q1: Write a program to convert a tuple of values into a tuple of singleton tuples of values. Thus, (1,2,3) should get converted to ((1,)(2,),(3,)).

Q2: Write a program to count the number of elements in a list until it finds a tuple in the list.

Q3: Write a program to add corresponding elements of two given tuples, giving rise to a new tuple.

Q4: Write a program to multiply each element of a given tuple with a given integer, giving rise to a new tuple.


Sets

Q1: Add few unique numbers in a set and use the 'in' operator to search for an element.

Q2: Write a program to convert a list of integers into a list of unique integers using sets.

Q3: Assume that we have 2 lists, each having only IP addresses as its contents.
Write a program to determine if the 2 lists have the same IP addresses (albeit in different positions) in the most optimal manner.


Dictionaries

Q1: Prepare a dictionary that has roll numbers as keys and marks as values. Print all the keys. Print all the values. Get 2 different values using their keys.


Q2: A shop has following commodities with its inventory maintained in a dictionary:
comm = {
'chair' : 10,
'table' : 22,
'sofa-set': 2,
'tv-unit': 0,
'fan': 10,
'table-lamp': 0,
'iron-box': 0,
'bed': 30
}

and its price in another dictionary

price = {
'chair': 2365,
'table': 37752,
'sofa-set': 23299,
'tv-unit': 120344
'bed': 40226
}

Accept the number of items for each commodity sold from standard input and at the end do the following:

1. Evaluate the income made by the shop owner.
2. If user enters a commodity that is not available in the shop, display appropriate message.
3. If user enters a quantity that is beyond the available limit, display the size of the inventory.
4. Display the inventory available.
